Blog: Meet Xata at PGConf NYC 2024 (#315)
xataio/mdx-blog: pgconf-nyc24.mdx

---
title: 'Meet Xata at PGConf NYC 2024'
description: 'Join Xata at PGConf NYC 2024 as we showcase our serverless Postgres platform and present key talks on schema migrations and PostgreSQL operational pain points and solutions.'
image:
  src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/pgconf-nyc@2x.jpg
  alt: PGConf NYC
author: Cezzaine Zaher
date: 09-17-2024
tags: ['community', 'events', 'postgres']
published: true
slug: pgconf-nyc2024
ogImage: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/pgconf-nyc-og@2x.jpg
---

> Xata is heading to New York this month as a Gold Sponsor of the upcoming [PGConf NYC 2024](https://postgresql.us/), a three day event for the PostgreSQL community. As a company that builds on the strengths of Postgres, this conference is particularly meaningful to us—and we’re looking forward to contributing to the vibrant discussions and innovation that surround the PostgreSQL community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Xata is heading to New York this month as a Gold Sponsor of the upcoming [PGConf NYC 2024](https://2024.pgconf.nyc), a three day event for the PostgreSQL community. As a company that builds on the strengths of Postgres, this conference is particularly meaningful to us—and we’re looking forward to contributing to the vibrant discussions and innovation that surround the PostgreSQL community.
```

PGConf NYC brings together developers, database administrators, engineers, and open-source enthusiasts from across the globe, offering a unique opportunity to learn from experts, share experiences, and deep dive into the technical aspects of PostgreSQL. With Postgres continuing to grow as one of the most popular databases in the world, these community-focused events are important in shaping future innovations.

> At Xata, we’re passionate about Postgres and committed to making it even more accessible and powerful for developers. Xata’s value proposition is simple: we bring the best of PostgreSQL and combine it with the [power of a serverless platform](https://xata.io/serverless-postgres). This means no more worrying about scaling, infrastructure, or managing your database—Xata takes care of that, letting developers focus on what they do best: building.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I love this suggestion, but let me know what you think

```suggestion
At Xata, we’re passionate about Postgres and committed to making it even more accessible and powerful for developers. Xata’s value proposition is simple: we reduce development time with PostgreSQL and provide all the benefits of a [serverless offering](https://xata.io/serverless-postgres). This means no more worrying about scaling, infrastructure, or managing your database—Xata takes care of that, letting teams focus on what they do best: building.
```

> At PGConf NYC, we’ll be showcasing how Xata makes working with Postgres not only easier but also more productive. Whether you’re interested in learning more about how to handle large datasets, streamline your workflows, or take advantage of the serverless revolution, our team will be on hand to answer your questions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At PGConf NYC, we’ll be showcasing how Xata makes working with Postgres not only easier but also makes you more productive. Whether you’re interested in learning more about how to handle large datasets, streamline your workflows, or learn more about the advantages of serverless, our team will be on hand to answer your questions.
```

# Xata’s featured talks

We’re hosting two technical talks at the conference that dive into some of the key challenges and solutions in the Postgres world.

## Postgres schema migrations using the expand/contract pattern

> _Monday, 30th September – 15:00 (The Hub)_

Reviewer 2: I wonder if these would be better as call outs like in the other community blog we did?

![CleanShot 2024-09-17 at 09 40 41@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f1b88fa4-be37-4741-aee8-0063e1d7de49)

Here's a link to the code snippet if you like it: https://github.com/xataio/mdx-blog/blob/c64a96880535634910e0f13606a427f4d82fa14b/oss-vienna-happy-hour.mdx?plain=1#L92

_Tuesday, 1st October – 10:40 (Library)_

_Speakers: [Monica Sarbu](https://twitter.com/monicasarbu), Founder & CEO, Xata | [Tudor Gulubenco](https://twitter.com/tudor_g), CTO, Xata_

Operating a Postgres database, especially at scale, comes with its share of challenges. From performance bottlenecks to schema changes or monitoring, this talk will address some of the most common operational pain points that teams face. More importantly, we’ll be diving into practical solutions to address these issues. In this session, we’ll cover:

- How to diagnose and resolve performance issues using real-world examples.
- The best practices for [major version upgrades in PostgreSQL](https://xata.io/blog/postgres-major-version-upgrades) environments.
- Tips around scaling and sharding strategies to stay ahead of potential problems.

Whether you’re running a single Postgres instance or managing a complex cluster, this talk will equip you with the tools and strategies to ensure your database runs smoothly. See the [full talk synopsis >](https://postgresql.us/events/pgconfnyc2024/schedule/session/1849-postgresql-operational-pain-points-and-solutions/)

> # Meet our team at the Xata booth

Reviewer 2: Not necessary, but it could be nice to have a picture of the Xata team at a booth. And we have a very recent one we could borrow haha

https://x.com/apatheticmagpie/status/1835610736275435711
